< beach ambience, waves hitting the shore, >
< wind, faint music, bird calls >
< distant voices converse in Polish >
Mental health awareness campaigns often ask us to break the silence.
But the decision to speak, or not to speak, is a complicated one.
And the question of how we describe our experiences is just as complicated.
The language of mental health is shaped by particular histories,
which reverberate in the present.
As the descendent of people who didn’t talk about mental health for generations,
I’m curious about speech and silence.
My context, as a settler Canadian who benefits from a colonial occupation,
is very different from the context of my ancestors,
Poles who lived under Soviet, Nazi, and Austro-Hungarian regimes.
I can’t solve their silence because I don’t know what speaking meant to them.
I don’t know how they understood their minds and bodies,
or how they gave voice to that understanding.
I don’t know how they communicated what they didn’t have words for.
I wonder: what words do you use?
Whose words do you use?
How did they reach you?
Through stories? Omissions?
Songs? Contradictions?
Rituals? Inferences?
Sensations? Whispers?
When do your words run out? What does your silence hold space for?
I brought these questions to seven other artists.
Click begin to explore their responses.
Each page will ask you to choose between two fragments.
Different choices will lead to different outcomes.
< beach ambience rises to the foreground again >
< voices conversing in Polish >
< piano and tone fade >
< Beach ambience fades >
< static crackles softly >